---
layout: post
title: 'Project Euler - Problem #2'
date: 2011-05-25 01:54:59.000000000 -06:00
tags: [python, project euler]
comments: true
---
## Problem Description

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

## Python Solution 1

This solution creates a function `fibon` that takes a single argument -- `maximum`. The value of `maximum` will be 4,000,000 in this example. The function first initializes an iterator (`i`), a list with two entries (`fib`), and a variable (`n`) that will be used to tell Python when to stop the `while` loop. The `while` loop creates the next entry in the sequence (`fibtemp`), makes it a list, and adds it to the `fib` list. Then it alters the value of `n` and adds 1 to the iterator.

Next it creates another empty list to hold the even numbers of the sequence (`fibeven`). The it uses a `for` loop over the elements of `fib` to identify whether a particular element is even. If it is even, it adds that element to `fibeven`. The function then returns the sum of `fibeven`.

	def fibon(maximum):
	    i = 2
	    fib = [1,2,]
	    n=0
	    while n &lt; maximum:
	        fibtemp=fib[i-2]+fib[i-1]
	        fibtemp = [fibtemp]
	        fib.extend(fibtemp)
	        n = fib[i]
	        i = i + 1
	    fibeven = []
	    for j in fib:
	        if j % 2 == 0:
	            j = [j]
	            fibeven.extend(j)
	    return sum(fibeven)
	
	print fibon(4000000)

## Python Solution 2

This solution uses a generator function to create the sequence. You can tell it is a generator function because of the `yield` keyword in it. Then I used NumPy arrays to process the sequence and identify the even numbers. I've been using NumPy quite a bit lately, so I wanted to come up with a solution that involved NumPy.

	import numpy as np
	
	def fibfun(maxnum):
	    x = 0
	    y = 1
	    while x &lt; maxnum:
	        yield x
	        x,y = y, x+y
	
	allnum = list(fibfun(4000000))  
	npall = np.array(allnum)
	npeven = npall[np.where(npall % 2 == 0)]
	print np.sum(npeven)

